Previously on x company.
I'm sorry, do I know you?
I suppose you do now.
Heidi adler. - Helene bauer.
I'm a friend of the fabers.
So nice to meet you.
Aurora, his feelings for you
make you all vulnerable.
End it.
That kiss, it was a mistake.
Is this sinclair talking?
No. Believe me.
I'm overseeing a special
project in poland. I need.
A man with exceptional skill
to pacify the area.
Your transfer has
already been approved.
If faber's posted alongside
his father-in-law, it puts him.
In a better position to learn
where the refineries are.
That's why
you're going there too.
I'll reach out to my old friend
at the ministry of transport.
I have your word
that klaus is all right?
Ernst, your son
died in the line of duty.
And you come here asking me for favours?!
What kind of man does that?
How did things
go with your contact?
We need to find another way.
Maybe poland can be
a new beginning.
And we get away from them.
Our obligations.
To each other are now over.
Not necessarily.
Did I tell
my father about the spies.
Who pretend to be my friends?
Not yet.
You will help us in poland.
Sabine?
Good morning! Where were you?
I was hoping to be back
before you were up.
I thought we should enjoy.
Madame le guennec's croissants
on our last day.
Made with butter. God knows how.
Well, I'm going to get.
The dishes.
Who needs plates?
If my father could see us now.
What is it?
Something I need to tell you.
All right.
The allied spies, they're
travelling to poland too.
Aurora will join us
on the train as helene bauer.
Why?
You said yourself, this is
a chance for us to start over.
Those people bring us
nothing but trouble.
My hands are tied.
Go back and tell them no.
Sabine,
I can't. Yes, you can.
I can't. It's to protect you.
How does it protect me?
They recorded a conversation
you had with aurora.
What?! You told her we knew.
About them,
that we let them into our home.
God. That I had agreed.
To help them. And now they can.
Use this against us at any time,
Force us do whatever they want.
You had no way of knowing
they would do this.
For now, we must cooperate.
Can we trust him?
He's never been predictable.
Worth the risk.
If the nazis get their hands.
On that much oil,
the war's over.
How did the americans respond?
Butler wants our intel.
On marigold asap.
Course he does.
He wants to know how we got
eyes and ears into poland.
So you told him
all he has to do is turn.
A high-ranking ss officer?
I did not.
And colonel mayhew?
He thinks it's terrific.
He's been pushing
for an attack on oil since '39.
It's good to have you back, sir.
It's good to be back.
It's been a busy week.
Where are we with papers
for neil and harry?
Harry dropped off the photographs.
Papers will be ready in a few hours.
Good. Faber's agent,
We fed him the false intel
as you asked.
We're questioning the local
fascists he was working with.
And I heard you took care
of the man yourself.
Yes, sir. Good.
Sir, I'd like to renew
my request for field training.
I'll consider it.
Once I've caught up.
Thank you, krystina.
Your successor seems eager
to maintain your high standards.
What do you mean? This morning, oberfuhrer
fischer ordered the mass arrests.
Of resistance members. He said.
They must pay for the hijacking
of the fuhrer's broadcast.
Idiot.
Herr brigadefuhrer?
He wants to look good
to the powers in berlin.
But now the resistance will be
twice as cautious and go.
Deeper underground,
and a more cautious enemy.
Is harder to catch.
"A more cautious enemy
is harder to catch."
What are you doing? Memorizing.
I keep a journal.
No, no. I am definitely
more humphrey bogart.
Than what's-his-chops.
His name is Joseph cotten.
Ok, you feel like a bogart.
But in that photo,
you look exactly like cotten.
What do you mean,
I "feel" like humphrey bogart?
It doesn't even matter.
Just forget about it.
Then why did you say it then?
Well, I'm sorry I did.
I don't like using a forger
I haven't personally vetted,
Resistance or not.
Well, we're running low.
On options.
You're telling me faber.
Can't pull a few strings
to get us papers?
What use is he then?
You don't trust faber?
Course, I bloody don't.
Well, sinclair seems to.
Yeah, nobody's perfect.
Look at us out here trying
to scrounge a way to get...
Is that our guy? Yeah, it's him.
Let's get back
to the safe house.
Yeah. Get ourselves
out of paris. Gestapo have.
Our photos now.
He's late. He'll be here.
He will. We're selling faber.
On the idea that we're
on the same side.
We had to use the recording;
It was the only way.
To ensure his cooperation.
You once told me blackmail.
Was not a long-term plan.
It was for the security
of the team.
We had no choice.
We sacrifice a lot of things
for the security.
Of the team.
This couldn't wait?
We apologize,
But the circumstances
are serious.
Our contact was arrested
by the gestapo.
He was making papers
for neil and harry.
My successor wants to make a
statement. It's out of my hands.
We need german papers for them.
Papers take time.
I'm leaving for poland today.
The forger had neil
and harry's photographs.
Then, they need to disappear.
Tomorrow, their faces will be
on posters across the city.
That's why we need them
on a train today.
Can they come with us,
as our guests? No.
"Helene bauer" is our guest
because you have german papers.
According to your cover,
you should be in norway.
As for the other two? You could be
travelling with the fuhrer himself,
You'd still need papers
to cross into germany.
So how can we
get them to poland?
It's not my problem. Please,
Don't make us
make it your problem.
There is one way to cross
those borders without papers.
We're listening.
Move it. Continue.
Continue.
Move. Move.
It stops at a town called pomoc.
He'll be waiting on the platform
to take us off the train.
Course he will.
It's ok.
Move!
Come on. Thanks.
Anything other than this?
We have coffee or tea.
Next stop,
epernay. Epernay, next stop.
Good afternoon.
Will you bring me
some more sugar, please?
Sabine... do you honestly believe
I'll talk to you after what you did?
I'm sorry.
I wouldn't have done it
unless it was absolutely.
Necessary. Spare me.
It's critical
you play along, sabine.
Keep it away. We'll be alright.
It is bloody gone?
Come on, sit down!
Everybody, sit down!
Sit down!
Are you kidding me?
Prisoners get.
Special treatment
if they agree to help.
Unbelievable.
How did you know that? Drabek.
Bloody hell!
Advertise your product or brand here
contact www.OpenSubtitles.org today
You were living in the marais?
We hid in our apartments
during the round-ups,
But the germans found us
a few days later.
How? Our neighbours.
People we used
to have dinner with.
As they took us away, I asked him,
"why?" you know what he said?
"Because you are a jew."
I want to ensure.
We have a smooth trip,
and this will only happen.
If we all behave. Is that clear?
Where are we going?
Who put you in charge?
We're going to a work camp,
And the germans
put me in charge.
No more talking.
What kind of work?
I don't know, ben.
Here you go.
Thank you. Ma'am.
There's one thing I've been
meaning to tell you, and
I promise you it's the truth.
When you say that,
I know you're about
to lie to me.
Please.
Do you know how exhausting it is.
To be lied to all the time?
It goes both ways.
I've spent days where it felt.
Like I never spoke
a single true word.
By the end of those days,
I feel like there's
nothing left of me.
I was ready to hate you.
For so many reasons,
But then I met you,
and I couldn't.
There were lots of times
when our friendship was real,
When I told you things
that I hadn't told a living soul.
Because I knew...
I knew that you'd understand.
May I join you?
Please sit. I had no idea.
You were coming with us, helene.
Yes, well,
Here I am. Yes,
I was just thanking sabine.
For inviting me along.
I thought she'd appreciate
having a familiar face around.
While she settles in.
You travelled all this way.
To help your friend settle in?
That's very kind of you.
Helene is always up
for adventure.
Is that so?
Marvellous! I'm glad the museum
were willing to give you time off.
Well, they didn't really have
a choice. I quit this morning.
You do like adventure.
You know I told you
about my boss yesterday?
I want nothing to do.
With stolen artwork
or his wandering hands.
For that matter.
No, I'm taking a clean break.
I'll find another way
to do my part for the reich.
What disgusting behaviour.
Yes. Absolutely disgusting.
When I told sabine I had quit,
She didn't hesitate,
"pack your bags.
And come to poland!"
how spontaneous!
I love it!
Sabine, you said that?
I couldn't imagine leaving
helene alone in paris.
And sabine likes to get her way.
I'm a little bit jealous.
You two are like sisters.
We're going to be ok.
We arrive soon.
Did you take off your star?
No.
We're political prisoners.
When the germans took paris,
We were international students
at the sorbonne.
That's why
you have funny accents.
We stayed and organized
protests against the occupation.
You're lucky you're not jewish.
I go to school too.
I mean, I-i did. Do you like it?
I don't know. When I learn
things, they wash away.
My friend,
when he learns things,
It's like when you carve it
into a stone.
You keep the stone
your whole life.
Really? You must know
a lot of things.
Aaah.
Some people think
we are being sent.
To the camps to be killed.
Benj. Don't worry.
Why not? My father doesn't think.
It's true, and he's never wrong.
I feel sick.
I need air.
I need... I need... I need...
I... I can't breathe! I can't!
I need air! Calm down!
Don't touch me! Stop that.
I can't breathe!
Get down, you idiot!
No! No!
That's enough.
Get your hands off me!
I'm keeping you safe,
you understand?
Quiet. Qu'est-ce qui se passe?
Well, of course,
your boss was french.
I mean, yes, they know
how to cook, but their manners?
I hear they make.
Terrible lovers.
That is no rumour.
Believe me.
And what about your work, heidi?
Well, it's one
of the most important projects.
For the future of germany.
I'm intrigued.
The staff is almost all women.
Intelligent, forward-thinking,
independent women.
Cultured, like you two.
We'll all be friends,
I'm sure of it.
I'm sure. But I didn't know.
That natural resources.
Were employing so many women.
"natural resources"?
You work with obergruppenfuhrer
schmidt, don't you?
In the same building,
but different departments.
Aaah. What do you do?
We are the pioneers
of the new germany.
I showed franz
the photos of your new house.
You'll love it.
Does he enjoy hosting parties?
We have many in poland.
Well, he doesn't like
small talk and dance,
So, no, he doesn't enjoy them.
What a pity.
You should ask helene.
Not only did she get
franz to dance,
But your father as well.
Is that so?
Well, obergruppenfuhrer schmidt
is the one who asked.
It would have been
rude to decline.
Yes. That's true.
Excuse me. I need some air.
Sorry.
I'm sorry if i...
No. Not at all. The dance
meant nothing of course,
But sometimes it's hard.
For a daughter to see
her father as a man.
Of course. He does dote on her.
Tell me more
about being a pioneer.
Ok, I need to know...
Sir? From harry.
Sent before they left paris
this morning.
It took the new girl some time to decrypt
the message. They're on a train to poland.
Headed for a concentration camp.
The resistance forger
was arrested.
How could this happen?
I thought klaus's father...
It was just not possible.
Did something happen in paris?
Krystina, I'm afraid that I can't
agree to your field training.
Sir... I need my best people here.
To bring down operation
marigold. That means you.
I think we need
to tell them the truth.
I think they know. Thank you.
What do you mean?
When drabek first told us,
We didn't want to believe it.
And if you don't believe it,
there's hope.
And if you have hope...
You find a way to survive.
Here.
Thank you.
Franz! Yes.
Tell me what's happening.
The cargo train's
just south of us.
It crosses our path
in pomoc, just ahead.
We'll arrive
just before they stop to load,
And I'll make sure they're
pulled off the train in time.
And then what happens?
It's taken care of.
I'd like to know.
I've arranged
for a truck at the station.
We'll drop them off
in the woods before...
Is this your people?
No. Go! Go!
This is it. Is this the camp?
Is this the camp? I don't know.
I think I see faber.
Thank christ. I need water.
We need to get
some food and some water.
Let's go.
Ready? Move it! Ja.
I knew it.
He's not here.
Women and children,
off the train!
Now, quickly
or you will be shot!
I will not say it again!
Let's go! Move!
Come here.
Women and children, let's go!
Come on!
Come on, let's go!
Watch your rifle!
Women and children! Stay back!
No! Not you! Faster!
Let's go! Move!
Get over here! Let's go!
Women and children! Now! Now!
Let's go!
I won't leave you. I promise.
After release.
You cannot do this!
Is that all of them? That's it.
Only men back here.
No, we are not splitting up.
Either she stays here
or I go with her.
Let's go! Don't touch her!
Let her go! No!
Get her off the train!
Stay back!
Out of my way! What did you do?!
Take her.
Let's go! On the train! Go!
The train move, get going! Now!
Quiet. Do as they say.
Faster! Get up!
Faster, go!
Move! Move it!
How many men were on this car?
26, sir. 47 now.
If they are not exactly 47
when we arrive at the camp,
Every person of this car
will be shot!
Is that clear?
Let's go. Lock it up!
What's going on?! Take cover!
Close the curtains!
Status. Armed fighters.
They're robbing passengers.
And executing uniforms.
Polish resistance.
We make our stand here.
Let me help.
You two cover that way.
Argh!
It is my job to ensure.
That we behave on our journey
to the labour camp.
We know exactly where we're
going and exactly what you are.
Everyone, calm down.
I just watched my wife.
Shot in the head,
and you want me to calm down?!
We're all prisoners here.
But only one of us.
Is working with the nazis.
You said.
You know where we are going? To a camp.
I don't know which one.
But they are work camps, yes?
Not all of them.
You heard this? Yes.
People are sent to camps,
and no one hears.
From them again. Is that true?
I don't know anything!
Easy, easy! If you know
something, tell us!
Yes, tell us! We need to know.
Let him go!
I will as soon as he tells us.
Everything he knows.
I know where we're going.
We're headed
to a concentration camp,
Just outside warsaw.
It's an extermination camp.
We're out.
What do we do?
Surrender or we die.
Look at sabine.
We surrender!
We surrender! We surrender!
Get up, all of you!
Sabine.
Are you deaf? We surrendered!
Patience, pig.
You're next. Hold on!
He's right, they surrendered.
The least we can do
is give them the courtesy.
Of executing them standing up.
We must be doing something right
if adolf's sending.
A brigadefuhrer to deal with us.
What is your name?
Fine. I'll call you fritz.
Here is this thing, fritz.
Poland is not france.
We never surrendered
after you invaded us,
Because, frankly,
We'd rather fight until
every last one of us is dead.
We know this train is carrying
a shipment of weapons,
And we'd very much like
to take them with us.
Where are the guns?
Silence.
Is not your friend right now,
brigadefuhrer fritz.
You don't know what you're talking about.
We had a friend in paris,
Pavel drabek. He escaped
from one of the camps.
If the germans wanted to kill us,
why didn't they do it in paris?
Why make us travel all this way?
It just doesn't make sense.
Does anything
the boche do make sense?
We have to escape.
But what if he is wrong?
What if we are going
to the work camp?
Do you think that will be any
kind of life? Maybe not.
I will do everything I can
to keep my son alive.
Yes.
If we do escape, it has to be all of us.
We can't condemn the others.
Why would we trust him?
What choice do we have?
What is it?
You know something, don't you?
Can you help us?
Which one of you is his wife?
I'm his wife. Yeah?
Now tell me...
Helene. Helene.
Are you a fortune teller?
I ask because I see
you are already wearing.
Your ring on your widow hand.
Or is it wishful thinking?
Very pretty.
Is that your wife?
Is. That. Your wife?
Nooo!
All you had to do was say yes!
Ready to have a conversation
about guns, fritz?
Yes.
Good.
It's too risky to go.
I'm doing this for my family.
This is the only reason
I help the germans.
I understand.
They'll understand too.
It doesn't matter.
Of course, it matters.
You don't understand.
Everyone here,
We're already dead.
Yeah,
We're already dead,
But only if we don't
do anything.
Because if we fight,
then there's hope.
There's hope for everybody here.
Including you.
Leave her alone.
I'll tell you everything.
All right.
The guns aren't on this train.
I don't like this answer.
I rerouted the shipment
at the last minute.
The guns arrived in pruszko
on yesterday's train.
You're lying. He's not!
I oversaw the shipment
transfer myself.
Yeah?
Well, you would've made
a worthy opponent, fritz.
No time for last words,
I'm afraid, so...
Please don't kill us! Stop!
Shut up!
Please. You're making a mistake.
Get out of the way.
He's worth more as a prisoner.
Than as a corpse.
Kill him.
Send a message. Send a message.
His replacement should be
nervous about ever entering
Polish soil again. This one.
Made a valid point though.
She's right.
Leave the women here,
take me prisoner.
We'll take you all prisoners. If you do,
I'll fight until you have to shoot me.
Sounds good to me.
I can be valuable to you.
They promised me
that shira, my sister,
They would put her
into a work camp.
She has a club foot,
you understand?
So if I didn't say yes,
they would have...
They use gas.
The camps, the rumours
you've heard.
Are true. But how can that be?
Everyone.
They're dead?
I'm sorry. No.
The truth is better.
You are right,
we have to escape.
All of us. We won't all make it.
Isn't it better some of us
live than all of us die?
You'll remember me,
Right?
Of course, I will.
And everyone here?
Carved in stone,
Just like I said.
Everything I see or hear.
Could you do it for everyone?
I could.
Please?
My friend here is a kind of.
Storyteller.
If you tell him
something about yourself,
He'll never forget it.
If he survives,
He'll make sure
you're all remembered.
Right, benjamin?
I think I might have an idea
how to get out of here.
These are the names.
Of six of our fighters
in german custody.
I will trade...
What's his name?
Brigadefuhrer franz faber.
I'll trade fritz for them,
4 p.M. Sharp where I've
indicated on the paper.
But...
There will be no negotiation.
Unless all six prisoners
are there,
We'll execute him.
I'll deliver this to
the pruszko authorities myself.
Good boy.
No!
Welcome to poland.
Leon hirsch.
I met my wife clara.
When we were
both working in toulouse.
Before the war.
Even if we could
jump, train's going too fast.
When we got on,
I noticed the car behind us.
Was being loaded with oil drums.
Oil?
If we could start a fire...
They'd have to stop.
And put it out or they'd risk
blowing up the train.
The germans would have
to open the doors.
What about the others?
What others? In the other cars.
Aren't we going
to help them escape?
He has a point. It'll be risky.
Opening the other wagons.
Every car's got a guard on it.
So shouldn't we at least try
to help free them?
I'll do it.
I'll open the other wagons.
And when the guard opens
the door, I'll deal with him.
You all run for the woods,
And I'll go along the tracks.
And try to free as many
of the others as I can.
Let's get started then.
My name is charles stein.
I study biology.
At the sorbonne.
My name is georges mandelbaum.
I'm a dentist.
I have a twin brother louis,
but I haven't seen him.
Since the roundup.
My name is jonathan collard.
My wife and I had just opened
a café in the marais.
I'm teaching my son
everything I know.
As a plumber, so that
after the war, he can take over.
My business and help rebuild.
I am a drummer. Jazz mostly.
I have a cousin in america
who plays with nat king cole,
And he says he can get me.
A gig with him.
15 years I was police officer.
I told them I've never even been
to temple, but then they wanted.
To set an example.
A few days ago, I was out.
Trying to sell
what little we had left.
When I returned,
they had taken my wife.
I never got to say good-bye.
Fire! The train is on fire!
Stop the train! Please!
We're on fire!
Stop the train! Open the doors!
Fire!
Stop the train!
Eryk mlynarczyk.
I was a baker in a small village
just outside of wroclaw.
But my younger sister,
I don't know.
Where they've taken her.
I am yitzhak lieberman, 33,
Cook from tylice.
I live there
with my wife, laila,
And our daughter, maya.
Karl berkovitch.
This is my father samuel.
We're both tailors.
We moved to paris last month.
Everyone in my family
left when the nazis arrived,
But my father
was too sick to travel, so
I stayed behind to take care...
I was separated from my family.
At the vel' d'hiv'.
My wife's name.
Is miriam.
My daughter is catherine.
The last time I saw her, she had
a pink ribbon in her hair.
I saved six months to get.
A ticket to switzerland,
but then they said.
The borders were closed.
My name is henri meyerson.
I was born and raised in paris,
And my wife, gertie,
passed away soon after.
Our son was born. I owned
a small bookshop in the marais.
It wasn't much, but it was
enough for me and benjamin.
I often wonder what benjamin
will become later in life.
I always hoped
he would take over the shop.
Perhaps he'll start his own.
They're getting away!
Now, my only purpose is to make sure
he can one day make that choice.
Alfred! Run!
Alfred, run!
Hey! Come on! Run!
Get some water! Fire.
In car four! Come on!
Don't let them go!
Harry?
Harry!
Go! Go!
They're getting away!
Come on!
Stop now! Hands in the air!
There. Give me a hand.
Let's go. Let's go!
Come on!
We'll arrive in pruszko
in a few minutes.
Thank you.
Don't you touch me!
I'm sorry. I...
How could you? First,
you pretend to be franz's wife,
And then you offer him up
to the resistance?
I was only trying to...
What's wrong with you?!
You have some nerve.
Franz was about to be shot.
In the head.
Helene not only saved his life,
but, in all likelihood,
Saved ours as well.
You can be angry
about what happened,
But don't blame the one person
you should be thanking.
There was no need...
Yes there was.
She is a german; We are at war.
This is not personal.
Must feel that way to her.
Can i... Ask you a question?
Of course.
Do all women working in poland
carry a gun?
Only some of us.
I told you,
we are pioneers of sorts.
Poland is the frontier,
and, as we've just seen,
There are risks.
But it must take
a very special kind of woman.
To handle it all. Yes.
And judging by the way
you handled yourself.
With those animals,
you'd fit right in.
Thank you. Pruszko station.
Arriving at pruszko!
Pruszko station!
Actually,
I'm offering you a job.
A job?
We are short-staffed,
and someone.
With your courage, well,
It's worth its weight
in gold out here.
I'd like you as my associate.
At race and resettlement,
Starting immediately.
Well, I'm...
I'm flattered,
but can I think about it?
You don't have to.
I'll take you to a hotel.
We use, and you can
start at the office
9 a.M. Sharp.
We're going to take you
all back to our camp.
Let's go.
We have to go.
Dammit!
Still no word from harry?
No, sir.
I'm not gonna be able to sleep
'til I know they're safe.
It's my fault
that they were on that train.
Sir? Frommer was supposed.
To take care of it, but then
I told him what had happened.
Why?
I couldn't lie.
If it was william,
I would have wanted to know.
I put that team.
At risk because I was... selfish.
I'm not sure
what I'd do without you.
Krystina, I rely on you.
I trust your judgment.
But by keeping you here, I'm depriving
the war effort of an agent.
With the skill and the courage
needed for us to win.
The next operational team
that goes out, you're in.
I won't let you down.
I know.
I heard gunshots.
Train car of prisoners
headed for the camps.
They broke out
and made a run for it.
These are some of the survivors.
And you? We lost three men,
But we did land a prize.
An officer? Even better.
Brigadefuhrer.
Support us and become VIP member
to remove all ads from www.OpenSubtitles.org